Open Model Zoo contribution guide (#433)
opencv/open_model_zoo: CONTRIBUTING.md

# How to contribute model to Open Model Zoo

From this document you will learn how to contribute your model to OpenVINO&trade; Open Model Zoo (OMZ). It could be done in few steps.

1. [Model location](#model-location)
2. [Model conversion](#model-conversion)
3. [Demo](#demo)
4. [Accuracy validation](#accuracy-validation)
7. [Configuration file](#configuration-file)
6. [Documentation](#documentation)
7. [Pull request requirements](#pull-request-requirements)

List of supported frameworks:
* Caffe\*
* Caffe2\* (by conversion to ONNX\*)
* TensorFlow\*
* MXNet\*
* PyTorch\* (by conversion to ONNX\*)

## Model location

Upload your model to any Internet file storage. The main requirements are that the model must either be downloadable from a direct HTTP(S) link or from Google Drive\*.

*After this step you will get **links** to the model*

## Model conversion

> Deep Learning Inference Engine (IE) supports models in Intermediate Representation (IR) format. Model from any supported framework can be  converted to IR using Model Optimizer tool included in OpenVINO&trade; package. More information about conversion you can learn [here](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.html). After successful conversion you will get model in IR format `*.xml` representing net graph and `*.bin` containing net parameters. 

Reviewer: ...`A` model from any supported framework can be `extra space`converted...

`More information about conversion you can learn [here]`->`Find more information about conversion in [Model Optimizer Developer Guide]`

Reviewer: There is an extra bracket now: `[[Model Optimizer Developer Guide]`

Author: Thanks, fixed!

> **NOTE 2**: due to OpenVINO&trade; paradigms, if model input is a color image, color channel order should be `BGR`.

*After this step you`ll get **conversion parameters** for Model Optimizer.*

## Demo

Demo will show main idea of how work with your model. If your model solves one of the supported by Open Model Zoo task, try find appropriate option from [demos](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_demos_README.html) or [samples](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_IE_DG_Samples_Overview.html).

If appropriate demo or sample are absent, you must provide your own demo (C++ or Python). Demo's input requires next options:

-    `-i "<path>"`              Optional. Path to a input file or directory (for multiple inferences).
-    `-m "<path>"`              Required. Path to an .xml file with a trained model
-    `-d "<device>"`            Optional. Target device for model inference. By default CPU
-    `-no_show`                 Optional. Do not launch GUI window to visualize inference results. Needed for demo CI tests automation.

Also you can add any other necessary parameters.

> *After this step you'll get **demo** for your model (if no demo was available)*

Reviewer: Should we leave a note about adding tests for a new demo?

Reviewer: @eizamaliev, at least this comment is still applicable.

> **NOTE 1**: due to OpenVINO&trade; paradigms, image pre-processing parameters (mean and scale) should be built into converted model to simplify model usage.

> **NOTE 2**: due to OpenVINO&trade; paradigms, if model input is a color image, color channel order should be `BGR`.

*After this step you`ll get **conversion parameters** for Model Optimizer.*

## Demo

The demo shows the main idea of model inference using IE. If your model solves one of the tasks supported by Open Model Zoo, find appropriate demo from [demos](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_demos_README.html) or sample from [samples](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_IE_DG_Samples_Overview.html).

If appropriate demo or sample are absent, you must provide your own demo (C++ or Python). Demos are required to support the following keys:

-    `-i "<input>"`             Required. Input to process.
-    `-m "<path>"`              Required. Path to an .xml file with a trained model.
-    `-d "<device>"`            Optional. Target device for model inference. Default is CPU.

> -    `-no_show`                 Optional. Do not visualize inference results.

Reviewer: @Daniil-Osokin noted, that for python we should use `-` instead of `_` as word separator, so `no_show` should be `no-show` for python. What do you think?

Author: @Wovchena I've watched almost all Python demos and didn't find `no-show` or `no_show`. But almost all demos use `_` instead of `-`.  So I can mention your point in the guide, but it will lead to demo edit.

Reviewer: I can update demos when the PR is ready.

Reviewer 2: While I prefer dashes in options, it it IMHO not worth it to change existing demos at this point. I think we should just standardize on underscores.

Reviewer: What about allowing new demos following any of two styles and we point it in contribution guide?

Reviewer 2: Why should we do that? The fewer styles, the better.

Reviewer: The other style is more native for python :)

Reviewer 2: It's not exactly foreign to C++ either... But as I've said, I don't think it's worth it to change the convention at this point.

Reviewer: OK

# How to contribute to OMZ

From this document you will know how to contribute your model to OpenVINO&trade; Open Model Zoo. Almost any model from supported frameworks (see list below) can be added. It could be done in few simple steps.

1. [Model location](#model-location)
2. [Model conversion](#model-conversion)
3. [Demo](#demo)
4. [Accuracy validation](#accuracy-validation)
7. [Configuration file](#configuration-file)
6. [Documentation](#documentation)
7. [Pull request requirements](#pull-request-requirements)

List of supported frameworks:
* Caffe\*
* Caffe2\* (by conversion to ONNX\*)
* TensorFlow\*
* MXNet\*

> * PyTorch\* (by conversion to ONNX\*)

Author: This is crucial information, I won't remove it.  Please resolve.

> * PyTorch\* (by conversion to ONNX\*)

Reviewer 2: I don't agree, but also I don't want this to hold up the PR, so all right.

## Model location

> Upload your model to any Internet file storage with easy and direct access to it. It can be www.github.com, GoogleDrive\*, or any other.

Reviewer 2: It's not clear what "easy and direct access" means. In fact, I would argue that access to Google Drive is neither easy nor direct.

The real requirements are that the model must either be downloadable from a direct HTTP(S) link or from Google Drive.

(Note, BTW, that Google Drive is two words, not one.)

*After this step you will get **links** to the model*

## Model conversion

> OpenVINO&trade; supports models in its own format IR. Model from any supported framework can be easily converted to IR using Model Optimizer tool included in OpenVINO&trade; package. More information about conversion you can learn [here](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.html). After successful conversion you will get model in IR format `*.xml` representing net graph and `*.bin` containing net parameters. 

Reviewer 2: It is not OpenVINO that supports the IR format, but Inference Engine. (In general, "OpenVINO" should not be used on its own - it is grammatically an adjective.)

> **NOTE 1**: due to OpenVINO&trade; paradigm, image pre-processing parameters (mean and scale) should be built into converted model to simplify model usage.

> > **NOTE 2**: due to OpenVINO&trade; paradigms, if model input is a colored image, color channel order should be `BGR`.

Reviewer 2: colored -> color

> *After this step you`ll get **conversion parameters** for Model Optimizer.*

Reviewer 2: It's not clear what this step actually _is_. There should be at least one imperative sentence telling the reader what to do.

## Demo

> Demo will show main idea of how work with your model. If your model solves one of the supported by Open Model Zoo task, try find appropriate option from [demos](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_demos_README.html) or [samples](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_IE_DG_Samples_Overview.html).

Reviewer 2: Samples show how to use IE, not how to use models. Don't involve them in this.

Reviewer: `A` or `The` demo will show `the` main idea of how `to` work with (may be `infer` to be more specific) you model. If your model solves one of the `tasks supported by Open Model Zoo` try `finding` or `to find` `an` appropriate option from ...

> If appropriate demo or sample are absent, you must provide your own demo (C++ or Python). Demo's input requires next options:

Reviewer 2: next -> the following

Reviewer: `Demo's input requires next options:`->`Demos are required to support the following keys:` - this removes ambiguity, because `-i` also stands for input.

```

>     -i "<path>"              Optional. Path to a input file or directory (for multiple inferences). By default input must be generated randomly.

Reviewer 2: > By default input must be generated randomly.

Where did this come from? I don't think any of the existing demos do this.

Reviewer: * `-i` is Required. I agree with @IRDonch 

* Let's avoid specifying what exactly should be an input, because it may depend on use case and it also usually depends on what is installed and can be used as `VideoCapture`'s backend. I would be OK with `Input to process`.

>     -m "<path>"              Required. Path to an .xml file with a trained model

Reviewer 2: This should be elaborated for the case when a demo uses multiple models.

    -d "<device>"            Optional. Target device for model inference. By default CPU
    -no_show                 Optional. Do not launch GUI window to visualize inference results. Needed for demo CI tests automation.

> ```

Reviewer 2: A code block is a questionable choice for formatting this. I think a bulleted list or a table would make more sense.

Author: This is a shortcut from some demo usage, only with main options. 
I can add link to some demo documentation
**OR**
I can rewrite it in bulleted-list style

> Also you can add all necessary parameters for inference your model.

Reviewer 2: all -> any
inference -> inference with

> 

Reviewer 2: No "After this step" line?

Nowadays OMZ supports models from frameworks: 
* Caffe\*
* Caffe2\* (via conversion to ONNX\*)
* TensorFlow\*
* PyTorch\* (via conversion to ONNX\*)
* MXNet\*

## Pull request requirements

Contribution to OMZ comes down to creating pull request (PR) in this repository. Please use `develop` branch when creating your PR. Pull request is strictly formalized and must contains:
* configuration file  - `model.yml` (learn more in [Configuration file](#configuration-file) section)
* documentation of model in markdown format (learn more in [Documentation](#documentation) section)
* accuracy validation configuration file (learn more in [Accuracy Validation](#accuracy-validation) section)
* license added to [tools/downloader/license.txt](tools/downloader/license.txt)
* (*optional*) demo (learn more about it in [Demo](#demo) section)

Name your model in OMZ using next rules:
- name must be consistent with name given by authors, but full match not necessary
- use lowercase
- spaces are not allowed in the name, use `-` or `_` (`-` is preferable) as delimiters instead

> - if necessary, add suffix to model name, according to origin framework (see **`framework`** description in [configuration file](#configuration-file) section)

Author: Done

This name will be used for downloading, converting, etc.
Example:
```
resnet-50-pytorch
mobilenet-v2-1.0-224
```

Configuration and documentation files must be located in `models/public/<model_name>` directory. 

Validation configuration file must be located in [`tools/accuracy_checker/configs`](tools/accuracy_checker/configs).

If you adding demo, it must be locate it in [demos](/demos) folder. Learn more about it in [Demo](#demo) section.

This PR must pass next tests:
* model is downloadable by `tools/downloader/downloader.py` script (see [Configuration file](#configuration-file) for details)
* model is convertible by `tools/downloader/converter.py` script (see [Model conversion](#model-conversion) for details)
* model can be used by demo or sample and provides adequate results (see [Demo](#demo) for details)
* model passes accuracy validation (see [Accuracy validation](#accuracy-validation) for details)

> After the end, your PR will be review by OpenVINO&trade;'s team for consistence and legal.

Author: done

Your PR can be denied in case:
* inappropriate license (e.g. GPL-like licenses)
* inaccessible dataset
* PR fails one of the test above

## Configuration file

Models configuration file contains information about model: what it is, how to download it and how to convert it to IR format. This information must be specified in `model.yml` file, which must be located in the model subfolder. Let look closer to the file content.

**`description`**

This tag contains description of model.

**`task_type`**

This tag describes task that model solves:
- `action_recognition`
- `classification`
- `detection`
- `face_recognition`
- `head_pose_estimation`
- `human_pose_estimation`
- `image_processing`
- `instance_segmentation`
- `object_attributes`
- `optical_character_recognition`

> - `semantic_segmentation`

Author: I agree, but should we provide list of supported tasks in this guide? Or in `README.md`?

> - `semantic_segmentation`

Reviewer 2: Why should we? It already exists elsewhere.

* `name` sets file name after downloading
* `size` sets file size
* `sha256` sets file hash sum
* `source` sets direct link to file *OR* describes file access parameters

> You may obtain hash sum using `sha256sum <file_name>` command on Linux\*.
 
If file is located on Google Drive\*, section `source` must contain:
- `$type: google_drive`
- `id` file ID on Google Drive\*

> **NOTE:** if file is located on GitHub\* the version of the file must be fixed.

**`postprocessing`** (*optional*)

Sometimes right after downloading model is not ready for conversion by Model Optimizer and some additional preprocessing needed, such as unpacking, replacing or deleting some part of file. This manipulation is described in this section.

For unpacking archive:
- `$type: unpack_archive`
- `file` archive file name
- `format` archive format (zip | tar | gztar | bztar | xztar)

For replacement operations:
- `$type: regex_replace`
- `file` name of file where replacement must be executed
- `pattern` string or regexp ([learn more](https://docs.python.org/2/library/re.html))
- `replacement` replacement string

> - `count` (*optional*)  maximum number of pattern occurrences to be replaced

Author: Thanks! 
Done!

> **`conversion_to_onnx_args`** (*optional*)

Author: Good point!
Fixed!

List of onnx conversion parameters, see `model_optimizer_args` for details. Applicable for Caffe2\* and PyTorch\* frameworks.

**`model_optimizer_args`**

Conversion parameters (learn more in [Model conversion](#model-conversion) section) is specified in this section, e.g.:
```
  - --input=data
  - --mean_values=data[127.5]
  - --scale_values=data[127.5]
  - --reverse_input_channels
  - --output=prob
  - --input_model=$conv_dir/googlenet-v3.onnx
```
> **NOTE:**  no need to specify `framework`, `data_type`, `model_name` and `output_dir` parameters since them are deduced automatically.

**`framework`**

> Framework of original model (`caffe`, `dldt`, `mxnet`, `pytorch`, `tf`).

Reviewer 2: This list is already obsolete, BTW (which is why it shouldn't be here in the first place).

> Framework of original model (`caffe`, `dldt`, `mxnet`, `pytorch`, `tf`).

Reviewer 2: Also, I noticed that `dldt` is in this list, but not in the list at the top of the document. Are we accepting models in the IR format or not? (My vote is for no.)

**`license`**

Path to model's license.

----

> *After this step you will obtain **model.yml** file*

Author: Reasonable, deleted!

If appropriate demo or sample are absent, you must provide your own demo (C++ or Python). Demos are required to support the following keys:

-    `-i "<input>"`             Required. Input to process.
-    `-m "<path>"`              Required. Path to an .xml file with a trained model.
-    `-d "<device>"`            Optional. Target device for model inference. Default is CPU.
-    `-no_show`                 Optional. Do not visualize inference results.

> Note: For Python is preferable to use `-` instead of `_` as word separators (e.g. `-no-show`)

Also you can add any other necessary parameters.

If you adding new demo, please provide auto-testing support too:
- add demo launch parameters in [demos/tests/cases.py](demos/tests/cases.py)
- prepare list of input images in [demos/tests/image_sequences.py](demos/tests/image_sequences.py)

*After this step you'll get **demo** for your model (if no demo was available)*

## Accuracy validation

> Accuracy validation can be performed by [Accuracy Checker](./tools/accuracy_checker) tool, provided with repository. This tool can use IE to run converted model or original framework to run original model. Accuracy Checker supports lot of datasets, metrics and preprocessing options, what makes validation quite simple (if task is supported by tool). You need only create configuration file, which contain necessary parameters to do accuracy validation (specify dataset and annotation, pre- and post processing parameters, accuracy metric to compute and so on). More details you can find [here](./tools/accuracy_checker#resting-new-models).

Reviewer 2: resting -> testing

If model uses dataset which is unsupported by Accuracy Checker, you also must provide link to it. Please notice this issue in PR description. Don't forget about dataset license too (see [above](#how-to-contribute-model-to-open-model-zoo)).

When the configuration file is ready, you must run Accuracy Checker to obtain metric results. If they match your results, that means  conversion was fully successful and Accuracy Checker fully supports your model, metric and dataset. If no - recheck [conversion](#model-conversion) parameters or validation configuration file.

*After this step you will get accuracy validation configuration file - **<model_name>.yml***

> ### Example

Reviewer 2: This section is either at the wrong level or in the wrong place - it's placed under "Accuracy validation", but it shows an example of a model downloader config.

Although an example of an Accuracy Checker config would be good to have too.

```
description: >-
  This is an Tensorflow\* version of `densenet-121` model, one of the DenseNet
  group of models designed to perform image classification. The weights were converted
  from DenseNet-Keras Models. For details see repository <https://github.com/pudae/tensorflow-densenet/>,
  paper <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.06993.pdf>
task_type: classification
files:
  - name: tf-densenet121.tar.gz
    size: 30597420
    sha256: b31ec840358f1d20e1c6364d05ce463cb0bc0480042e663ad54547189501852d
    source:
      $type: google_drive
      id: 0B_fUSpodN0t0eW1sVk1aeWREaDA
postprocessing:
  - $type: unpack_archive
    format: gztar
    file: tf-densenet121.tar.gz
model_optimizer_args:
  - --reverse_input_channels
  - --input_shape=[1,224,224,3]
  - --input=Placeholder
  - --mean_values=Placeholder[123.68,116.78,103.94]
  - --scale_values=Placeholder[58.8235294117647]
  - --output=densenet121/predictions/Reshape_1
  - --input_meta_graph=$dl_dir/tf-densenet121.ckpt.meta
framework: tf
license: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pudae/tensorflow-densenet/master/LICENSE

> ```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need a copy of the config here - the link works just fine.

Author: This example (and any other) is crucial for documentation. They will stay anyway.

Reviewer 2: I'm not asking you to remove the example. I'm just asking that you don't duplicate it.

Each PR contributing a model must contain:
* [configuration file `model.yml`](#configuration-file)
* [documentation of model in markdown format](#documentation)
* [accuracy validation configuration file](#accuracy-validation)
* license added to [tools/downloader/license.txt](tools/downloader/license.txt)
* (*optional*) [demo](#demo)

Follow the rules in the sections below before submitting a pull request.

### Model Name

Name your model in OMZ according to the following rules:
- Use a name that is consistent with an original name, but complete match is not necessary
- Use lowercase
- Use `-`(preferable) or `_` as delimiters, for spaces are not allowed
- Add a suffix according to framework identifier (see **`framework`** description in the [configuration file](#configuration-file) section for examples), if the model is a reimplementation of an existing model from another framework

This name will be used for downloading, converting, and other operations.
Examples of model names:
- `resnet-50-pytorch`
- `mobilenet-v2-1.0-224`

### Files Location

Place your files as shown in the table below:

File | Destination
---|---

> configuration file | `models/public/<model_name>/<model_name>.yml`

Reviewer 2: This is incorrect; it should say `model.yml`.

**`postprocessing`** (*optional*)

Post processing of the downloaded files.

For unpacking archive:
- `$type: unpack_archive`
- `file` — Archive file name
- `format` — Archive format (zip | tar | gztar | bztar | xztar)

For replacement operation:
- `$type: regex_replace`
- `file` — Name of file to run replacement in
- `pattern` — [Regular expression](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html)
- `replacement` — Replacement string
- `count` (*optional*)  — Exact number of replacements (if number of `pattern` occurrences less then this number, downloading will be aborted)

**`conversion_to_onnx_args`** (*only for Caffe2\*, PyTorch\* models*)

List of ONNX\* conversion parameters, see `model_optimizer_args` for details.

**`model_optimizer_args`**

Conversion parameters (learn more in the [Model conversion](#model-conversion) section). For example:
```
  - --input=data
  - --mean_values=data[127.5]
  - --scale_values=data[127.5]
  - --reverse_input_channels
  - --output=prob
  - --input_model=$conv_dir/googlenet-v3.onnx
```

> **NOTE:** Do not specify `framework`, `data_type`, `model_name` and `output_dir`, since they are deduced automatically.

> > **NOTE:** `$dl_dir` used to substitute download directory (key `-o` or `--output_dir` in `downloader.py` script) and `$conv_dir` used to substitute converter directory (key `-o` or `--output_dir` in `converter.py` script)

Reviewer 2: So are you going to update the description, then?

> **NOTE 2**: If a model input is a color image, color channel order should be `BGR`.

## Demo

A demo shows the main idea of how to infer a model using IE. If your model solves one of the tasks supported by the Open Model Zoo, try to find an appropriate option from [demos](demos/README.md) or [samples](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_IE_DG_Samples_Overview.html). Otherwise, you must provide your own demo (C++ or Python). 

The demo's name should end with `_demo` suffix to follow the convention of the project.

Demos are required to support the following keys:

 -  `-i "<input>"`: Required. Input to process.
 -  `-m "<path>"`: Required. Path to an .xml file with a trained model. If the demo uses several models at the same time, use other keys prefixed with `-m_`.
 -  `-d "<device>"`: Optional. Specifies a target device to infer on. CPU, GPU, FPGA, HDDL or MYRIAD is acceptable. Default must be CPU. If the demo uses several models at the same time, use keys prefixed with `d_` (just like keys `m_*` above) to specify device for each model.
 -  `-no_show`: Optional. Do not visualize inference results.

> > **TIP**: For Python, it is preferable to use `-` instead of `_` as word separators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **TIP**: For Python, it is preferable to use `--` instead of `-` for long keys.
```

You can also add any other necessary parameters.

If you add a new demo, provide autotesting support as well:
- add demo launch parameters in [demos/tests/cases.py](demos/tests/cases.py)
- prepare list of input images in [demos/tests/image_sequences.py](demos/tests/image_sequences.py)

Add `reamde.md` file, which describes demo usage. Update [demos' README.md](demos/README.md) adding your demo to the list.

## Accuracy Validation

> Accuracy validation can be performed by the [Accuracy Checker](./tools/accuracy_checker) tool. This tool can use either IE to run a converted model, or an original framework to run an original model. Accuracy Checker supports lots of datasets, metrics and preprocessing options, which simplifies validation if a task is supported by the tool. You only need to create a configuration file that contains necessary parameters for accuracy validation (specify a dataset and annotation, pre- and post-processing parameters, accuracy metrics to compute and so on). For details, refer to [Testing new models](./tools/accuracy_checker#testing-new-models).

Reviewer 2: I think you need to mention that the config needs to be for the converted model.

Author: Thats why I left example below!

Reviewer 2: A belated answer, but an example doesn't prove that the config needs to be for the converted model - it only says that it _can_ be.

> **NOTE 1**: image pre-processing parameters (mean and scale) should be built into converted model to simplify model usage.

> **NOTE 2**: if model input is a color image, color channel order should be `BGR`.

*After this step you`ll get **conversion parameters** for Model Optimizer.*

## Demo

A demo shows the main idea of how to infer a model using IE. If your model solves one of the tasks supported by Open Model Zoo, try to find an appropriate option from [demos](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_demos_README.html) or [samples](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_IE_DG_Samples_Overview.html). Otherwise, you must provide your own demo (C++ or Python).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The demo's name should end with `_demo` suffix to follow the convention of the project.

```

Demos are required to support the following keys:

-    `-i "<input>"`             Required. Input to process.
-    `-m "<path>"`              Required. Path to an .xml file with a trained model. If the demo uses several models at the same time, use other keys prefixed with `-m`.
-    `-d "<device>"`            Optional. Default is CPU.
-    `-no_show`                 Optional. Do not visualize inference results.

> Note: For Python is preferable to use `-` instead of `_` as word separators (e.g. `-no-show`)

Also you can add any other necessary parameters.

If you add new demo, please provide auto-testing support too:
- add demo launch parameters in [demos/tests/cases.py](demos/tests/cases.py)
- prepare list of input images in [demos/tests/image_sequences.py](demos/tests/image_sequences.py)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update [demos' README.md](demos/README.md) adding your demo to the list.

```

Frameworks supported by the Open Model Zoo: 
* Caffe\*
* Caffe2\* (via conversion to ONNX\*)
* TensorFlow\*
* PyTorch\* (via conversion to ONNX\*)
* MXNet\*

## Pull Request Requirements

To contribute to OMZ, create a pull request (PR) in this repository using the `develop` branch.
Pull requests are strictly formalized and are reviewed by the OMZ maintainers for consistence and legal compliance.

Each PR contributing a model must contain:
* [configuration file `model.yml`](#configuration-file)
* [documentation of model in markdown format](#documentation)
* [accuracy validation configuration file](#accuracy-validation)
* license added to [tools/downloader/license.txt](tools/downloader/license.txt)
* (*optional*) [demo](#demo)

Follow the rules in the sections below before submitting a pull request.

### Model Name

Name your model in OMZ according to the following rules:
- Use a name that is consistent with an original name, but complete match is not necessary
- Use lowercase
- Use `-`(preferable) or `_` as delimiters, for spaces are not allowed

> - Include a suffix according to an original framework (see **`framework`** description in the [configuration file](#configuration-file) section for examples), if you add a reimplementation of an existing model in OMZ from another framework

Author: Fixed

This name will be used for downloading, converting, and other operations.
Examples of model names:
- `resnet-50-pytorch`
- `mobilenet-v2-1.0-224`

### Files Location

Place your files as shown in the table below:

File | Directory
---|---
configuration file<br>documentation file |`models/public/<model_name>`

> validation configuration file|`tools/accuracy_checker/configs`

Author: Good point, thank!
Fixed

> demo file|`demos`

Author: Fixed

### Tests

Your PR must pass next tests:
* Model is downloadable by the `tools/downloader/downloader.py` script. See [Configuration file](#configuration-file) for details.
* Model is convertible by the `tools/downloader/converter.py` script. See [Model conversion](#model-conversion) for details.
* Model is usable by demo or sample and provides adequate results. See [Demo](#demo) for details.
* Model passes accuracy validation. See [Accuracy validation](#accuracy-validation) for details.

### PR Rejection

Your PR may be rejected in some cases, for example:
* If a license is inappropriate (such as GPL-like licenses).
* If a dataset is inaccessible.
* If the PR fails one of the tests above.

## Configuration File

The model configuration file contains information about model: what it is, how to download it, and how to convert it to the IR format. This information must be specified in the `model.yml` file that must be located in the model subfolder. 

> Refer to the detailed descriptions of each file provided below.

Author: Fixed

  - --input_shape=[1,224,224,3]
  - --input=Placeholder
  - --mean_values=Placeholder[123.68,116.78,103.94]
  - --scale_values=Placeholder[58.8235294117647]
  - --output=densenet121/predictions/Reshape_1
  - --input_meta_graph=$dl_dir/tf-densenet121.ckpt.meta
framework: tf
license: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pudae/tensorflow-densenet/master/LICENSE
```

## Model Conversion

Deep Learning Inference Engine (IE) supports models in the Intermediate Representation (IR) format. A model from any supported framework can be converted to IR using the Model Optimizer tool included in the OpenVINO&trade; toolkit. Find more information about conversion in the [Model Optimizer Developer Guide](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.html). After a successful conversion you get a model in the IR format, with the `*.xml` file representing the net graph and the `*.bin` file containing the net parameters. 

> **NOTE 1**: Image preprocessing parameters (mean and scale) must be built into a converted model to simplify model usage.

> **NOTE 2**: If a model input is a color image, color channel order should be `BGR`.

## Demo

> A demo shows the main idea of how to infer a model using IE. If your model solves one of the tasks supported by the Open Model Zoo, try to find an appropriate option from [demos](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_demos_README.html) or [samples](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_IE_DG_Samples_Overview.html). Otherwise, you must provide your own demo (C++ or Python). 

Reviewer 2: The `demos` link should be a relative link to the file in this repository, since that's going to have more up-to-date information.

The demo's name should end with `_demo` suffix to follow the convention of the project.

Demos are required to support the following keys:

 -  `-i "<input>"`: Required. Input to process.

>  -  `-m "<path>"`: Required. Path to an .xml file with a trained model. If the demo uses several models at the same time, use other keys prefixed with `-m`.

Reviewer 2: prefixed with `-m_`

>  - `-d "<device>"`: Optional. Default is CPU.

Reviewer 2: There's no explanation of what the option is. Also, there needs to be a note about the multi-model case, similar to the one for `-m`.

 - `--no_show`: Optional. Do not visualize inference results.

> **TIP**: For Python, it is preferable to use `-` instead of `_` as word separators. Example: `--no-show`.

You can also add any other necessary parameters.

If you add a new demo, provide autotesting support as well:
- add demo launch parameters in [demos/tests/cases.py](demos/tests/cases.py)
- prepare list of input images in [demos/tests/image_sequences.py](demos/tests/image_sequences.py)

Update [demos' README.md](demos/README.md) adding your demo to the list.

## Accuracy Validation

> Accuracy validation can be performed by the [Accuracy Checker](./tools/accuracy_checker) tool. This tool can use either IE to run a converted model, or an original framework to run an original model. Accuracy Checker supports lots of datasets, metrics and preprocessing options, what simplifies validation if a task is supported by the tool. You only need to create a configuration file that contains necessary parameters for accuracy validation (specify a dataset and annotation, pre- and post-processing parameters, accuracy metrics to compute and so on). For details, refer to [Testing new models](./tools/accuracy_checker#testing-new-models).

Reviewer 2: _which_ simplifies validation.

If a model uses a dataset which is not supported by the Accuracy Checker, you also must provide the license and the link to it and mention it in the PR description. 

> When the configuration file is ready, you must run the Accuracy Checker to obtain metric results. If they match your results, that means conversion was successful and the Accuracy Checker fully supports your model, metric and dataset. Otherwise, recheck the[conversion](#model-conversion) parameters or the validation configuration file.

Reviewer 2: Missing space after _the_.

```
models:
  - name: alexnet-cf
    launchers:
      - framework: caffe
        model:   public/alexnet/alexnet.prototxt
        weights: public/alexnet/alexnet.caffemodel
        adapter: classification
    datasets:
      - name: imagenet_1000_classes
        preprocessing:
          - type: resize
            size: 256
          - type: crop
            size: 227
          - type: normalization
            mean: 104, 117, 123

  - name: alexnet
    launchers:
      - framework: dlsdk
        tags:
          - FP32
        model:   public/alexnet/FP32/alexnet.xml
        weights: public/alexnet/FP32/alexnet.bin
        adapter: classification

      - framework: dlsdk
        tags:
          - FP16
        model:   public/alexnet/FP16/alexnet.xml
        weights: public/alexnet/FP16/alexnet.bin
        adapter: classification

    datasets:
      - name: imagenet_1000_classes
        preprocessing:
          - type: resize
            size: 256
          - type: crop
            size: 227

        metrics:
          - name: accuracy@top1
            type: accuracy
            top_k: 1
          - name: acciracy@top5
            type: accuracy
            top_k: 5

> ```

Reviewer 2: Again, no reason to copy the config here - just link to it.

Author: I would prefer to leave such examples in this document. They make it more understandable and and simply, because reduce "link clicks".

Reviewer 3: For full understanding, I think it can be useful to use one model for all examples. It shows step by step what should be done. For me, if it will the same model which you use in model config demonstration is more suitable.

Author: Good point, thanks!

# How to contribute model to Open Model Zoo

We appreciate your intention to contribute model to OpenVINO&trade; Open Model Zoo (OMZ). This guide would help you and explain main issues. OMZ is licensed under Apache License, Version 2.0. By contributing to the project, you agree to the license and copyright terms therein and release your contribution under these terms. Please note, that we accept models under permissive license: **MIT**, **Apache 2.0**, **BSD-3-Clause**. In other case it may take longer time to get approval (or even denial) for your model.

Nowadays OMZ supports models from frameworks: 
* Caffe\*
* Caffe2\* (via conversion to ONNX\*)
* TensorFlow\*
* PyTorch\* (via conversion to ONNX\*)
* MXNet\*

## Pull request requirements

> Contribution to OMZ comes down to creating pull request (PR) in this repository. Please use `develop` branch when creating your PR. Pull request is strictly formalized and must contains:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Contribution to OMZ comes down to creating pull request (PR) in this repository. Please use `develop` branch when creating your PR. Pull request is strictly formalized and must contain:
```

* configuration file  - `model.yml` (learn more in [Configuration file](#configuration-file) section)
* documentation of model in markdown format (learn more in [Documentation](#documentation) section)
* accuracy validation configuration file (learn more in [Accuracy Validation](#accuracy-validation) section)
* license added to [tools/downloader/license.txt](tools/downloader/license.txt)
* (*optional*) demo (learn more about it in [Demo](#demo) section)

Name your model in OMZ using next rules:

> - name must be consistent with name given by authors, but full match not necessary

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- name must be consistent with the original, but full match isn't necessary
```

- use lowercase
- spaces are not allowed in the name, use `-` or `_` (`-` is preferable) as delimiters instead
- suffix to model name, according to origin framework (see **`framework`** description in [configuration file](#configuration-file) section), if you adding reimplementation of existing model in OMZ from another framework

This name will be used for downloading, converting, etc.
Example:
```
resnet-50-pytorch
mobilenet-v2-1.0-224
```

> Configuration and documentation files must be located in `models/public/<model_name>` directory. 

Reviewer 4: This section goes in some kind of Array of Structs fashion: 
- Pull request should contain configuration, documentation, validation, anddemo
- These are the places for configuration, documentation, validation and demo
- Tests should pass for configuration, documentation, validation and demo

I suggest to merge/remove/move the 2 latter "subsections"

```
description: >-
  This is an Tensorflow\* version of `densenet-121` model, one of the DenseNet
  group of models designed to perform image classification. The weights were converted
  from DenseNet-Keras Models. For details see repository <https://github.com/pudae/tensorflow-densenet/>,
  paper <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.06993.pdf>
task_type: classification
files:
  - name: tf-densenet121.tar.gz
    size: 30597420
    sha256: b31ec840358f1d20e1c6364d05ce463cb0bc0480042e663ad54547189501852d
    source:
      $type: google_drive
      id: 0B_fUSpodN0t0eW1sVk1aeWREaDA
postprocessing:
  - $type: unpack_archive
    format: gztar
    file: tf-densenet121.tar.gz
model_optimizer_args:
  - --reverse_input_channels
  - --input_shape=[1,224,224,3]
  - --input=Placeholder
  - --mean_values=Placeholder[123.68,116.78,103.94]
  - --scale_values=Placeholder[58.8235294117647]
  - --output=densenet121/predictions/Reshape_1
  - --input_meta_graph=$dl_dir/tf-densenet121.ckpt.meta
framework: tf
license: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pudae/tensorflow-densenet/master/LICENSE
```
----
*After this step you will obtain **model.yml** file*

## Model conversion

> Deep Learning Inference Engine (IE) supports models in Intermediate Representation (IR) format. A model from any supported framework can be converted to IR using Model Optimizer tool included in OpenVINO&trade; toolkit. Find more information about conversion in [Model Optimizer Developer Guide](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.html). After successful conversion you will get model in IR format `*.xml` representing net graph and `*.bin` containing net parameters. 

Reviewer: It seems yes: https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_IE_DG_Deep_Learning_Inference_Engine_DevGuide.html

> **NOTE 1**: image pre-processing parameters (mean and scale) should be built into converted model to simplify model usage.

> **NOTE 2**: if model input is a color image, color channel order should be `BGR`.

*After this step you`ll get **conversion parameters** for Model Optimizer.*

## Demo

The demo shows the main idea of model inference using IE. If your model solves one of the tasks supported by Open Model Zoo, find appropriate demo from [demos](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_demos_README.html) or sample from [samples](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_docs_IE_DG_Samples_Overview.html).

If appropriate demo or sample are absent, you must provide your own demo (C++ or Python). Demos are required to support the following keys:

-    `-i "<input>"`             Required. Input to process.
-    `-m "<path>"`              Required. Path to an .xml file with a trained model.
-    `-d "<device>"`            Optional. Target device for model inference. Default is CPU.
-    `-no_show`                 Optional. Do not visualize inference results.

> > Note: For Python is preferable to use `-` instead of `_` as word separators (e.g. `-no-show`)

Author: Done

> > Note: For Python is preferable to use `-` instead of `_` as word separators (e.g. `-no-show`)

Reviewer: Submitted a change instead.

Also you can add any other necessary parameters.

If you adding new demo, please provide auto-testing support too:
- add demo launch parameters in [demos/tests/cases.py](demos/tests/cases.py)

> - prepare list of input images in [demos/tests/image_sequences.py](demos/tests/image_sequences.py)

Reviewer 2: We kinda _do_, although it's not very prominent: it's documented at the top of `run_tests.py`.

> - prepare list of input images in [demos/tests/image_sequences.py](demos/tests/image_sequences.py)

Reviewer: It's the list of used, but not available datasets :)

> - prepare list of input images in [demos/tests/image_sequences.py](demos/tests/image_sequences.py)

Reviewer: @IRDonch, any thoughts?

> - prepare list of input images in [demos/tests/image_sequences.py](demos/tests/image_sequences.py)

Reviewer: So, the note about updating tests should be removed.

*After this step you'll get **demo** for your model (if no demo was available)*

## Accuracy validation

> Accuracy validation can be performed by [Accuracy Checker](./tools/accuracy_checker) tool, provided with repository. This tool can use IE to run converted model or original framework to run original model. Accuracy Checker supports lot of datasets, metrics and preprocessing options, what makes validation quite simple (if task is supported by tool). You need only create configuration file, which contain necessary parameters to do accuracy validation (specify dataset and annotation, pre- and post processing parameters, accuracy metric to compute and so on). More details you can find [here](./tools/accuracy_checker#testing-new-models).

Reviewer: > Accuracy Checker supports lot of datasets

`a ` lot of OR lot`s` of.
By the way this does not clarify anything. Should there be a link to lists of datasets of something like that?

> pre- and post

use both with `-` or none.

`More details you can find [here](./tools/accuracy_checker#testing-new-models).` -> `You can find (or just Find) more details [here](./tools/accuracy_checker#testing-new-models).`

If model uses dataset which is unsupported by Accuracy Checker, you also must provide link to it. Please notice this issue in PR description. Don't forget about dataset license too (see [above](#how-to-contribute-model-to-open-model-zoo)).

> When the configuration file is ready, you must run Accuracy Checker to obtain metric results. If they match your results, that means  conversion was fully successful and Accuracy Checker fully supports your model, metric and dataset. If no - recheck [conversion](#model-conversion) parameters or validation configuration file.

Reviewer: ...means `extra space`conversion...

*After this step you will get accuracy validation configuration file - **<model_name>.yml***

### Example

> Let use one of the file from `tools/accuracy_checker/configs`, for example, this is validation configuration file for [AlexNet](tools/accuracy_checker/configs/alexnet.yml):

Reviewer: ...one of the file`s`...

        adapter: classification

      - framework: dlsdk
        tags:
          - FP16
        model:   public/alexnet/FP16/alexnet.xml
        weights: public/alexnet/FP16/alexnet.bin
        adapter: classification

    datasets:
      - name: imagenet_1000_classes
        preprocessing:
          - type: resize
            size: 256
          - type: crop
            size: 227

        metrics:
          - name: accuracy@top1
            type: accuracy
            top_k: 1
          - name: acciracy@top5
            type: accuracy
            top_k: 5
```

## Documentation

Documentation is very important part of model contribution, it helps to better understand possible usage of the model. Documentation must be named after suggested models name.
Documentation should contain:
* description of model
	* main purpose
	* features
	* links to paper or/and source
* model specification
	* type
	* framework
	* GFLOPs (*if available*)
	* number of parameters (*if available*)
* validation dataset description/link
* main accuracy values (also description of metric)
* detailed description of input and output for original and converted models

> Detailed structure and headers naming convention you can learn from any other model, e.g. [alexnet](./models/public/alexnet/alexnet.md).

Reviewer: `Detailed structure and headers naming convention you can learn from any other model` -> `You can learn (or just Learn) a detailed structure and headers...`
